Well Gombak Once you've identified components in your app that are rendered unnecessarily there are
a few steps that you can take.
Let's go back to our OP and we said that our head our component is kind of really rendering unnecessarily.
I mean this is a small example but you can imagine if this was another part of the app that is really
really complicated maybe we don't want that we Rander every time we hit the search box.
So what can we do well.
First off let's create a new header component.
And this component again will have to import re-act
and we're getting really good at creating Riak components because we've written down so many times.
But that is always a good thing.
And we want to make sure we export default the header component and within here we can just return or
use the render and inside of the render we can just return.
While we had initially which is just the simple H1.
All right nice and simple header and if we go over here we can just replace this now with the header
component and we'll want to import this
from our components.
Save everything and once again I want to add a little console log here to see what's being rendered.
So I save it here.
Let's also add a few more let's add in the cardless will add a console dialog that the cardless is being
rendered.
And we want to make sure that this is a string
and slut's adds another one for the search box as well.
Let's save to go back to our app and let's go to consul here and because our logger from Reebok's is
kind of crowding our console list just for now disable it going to go back to index Hygeia us and for
now just remove this from our apply middleware and save that and go back and that's a lot better.
All right.
Now we see over here that they're being rendered twice.
And if you think about it why is that.
Well it's because initially the robot's array is empty.
And then we make that API call the robot's array gets filled which is our state and then we re Rander
Hetter Smashbox cardless.
So how can we avoid re rendering over here of Hetter Well we have a lice lifecycle that we can use called
Should component update.
And this comes with every single Riak component so its every act lifecycle hook and it returns true
if it returns true then it will update the component if it returns false then it wont to update the
component this component actually receives next props.
Whoops.
Next props and next state.
But for us we don't really need that we just know that we don't want to render the header component
and so we can just say return false.
Let's see what happens here.
I'm going to save go back and look at that our head component just renders once the original time and
no matter what.
Now our head or component will never render.
And that is because we always have a shit component update.
False.
No.
Just never update this component and this is pretty dangerous because you're saying never ever update
this if this component actually received props or state and any of these change it won't render because
we've just said return false.
The default right now if we don't add Should component update is to always return true but should component
update gives us an ability to control this update cycle.
Let me give you a better example with something a little bit more complicated than a simple text.
Let's create a new file here a new component and we'll call this we'll call this counter button.
Yes.
And once again going through our motion I'm actually just going to copy the header over here and change
the names just to make things easier so I the say counter button.
And now this counter button is going to do a little bit more than just have the H-1 to in the constructor.
We're going to call super And then here it's going to have its own state and it's going to have a state
that says the count is equal to 1 or less to count is equal to zero.
That's the default count.
And for now let's just not do anything here.
I'm just going to keep that empty so it's always going to update the component.
And then finally within the Rander let's surrender something meaningful.
Let's render
a button.
That let's say has a color property and this color property is going to come from this stuff props dot
color which we're going to pass on.
And also a long click event update count.
And this is going to be a method we're going to create and this update come up here.
It will be a simple function that simply updates our state.
So this set state is going to have count as this dot state DOT count plus 1.
Now let's just now we're going to get back to this but for now let's just let's just have this button
the counter button in the header and also pass down the color props and it looks like over here the
highlighting is off.
So I think we made a little mistake.
Oh and that's because I need to close off this button.
Let's do that and let's just put a piece of text in here that just says count the start States starts
count.
All right let's just save this and import this into the header.
Well don't say imports Petar for not Hetter import counter Bodin
from the conurbation file.
And inside of here we can return a dev that has the counter button with say color of Mysti color red
for now
and let's not forget to close the day of let's save and we have a few syntax serious here if we go to
Hetter Well yeah 90 day.
Forgot my bracket here.
All right let's go back to our app.
We have our count zero.
I don't like where it is.
So let's actually put it below the H-1.
Let's save that.
That's a lot better.
And if we click on it oh we get some errors.
Sure component update returns undefined.
And you're right because we're calling within the counter BOTTEN sure component update but not doing
anything.
It's not working.
So just to return true for now
and let's click count.
All right.
Very cool.
Looks like it's working and we're rendering the combine and the Count number is increasing every time.
Now I mentioned over here that sometimes you can get some funny side effects when you update the state
based on what the current status.
That is because state updates are actually not synchronous.
That means they might not always happen when you might think.
So any time you're using state like this or you need to derive the next state from the current state.
It's recommended that you use the other way of updating state which is to grab the current state
and return
the new state based on this state parameter.
So let's save
and it's still working.
Perfect Let's clear this now just for fun.
Let's take a look at next props and next state if I go over here and do console log next props and console
all log next state.
Let's save here.
Go back and let's clear this anti-press count.
I see that I get the next prop read.
Well it's not going to change because we haven't changed any of the props but the count is now one.
If I click again count to to count to three and you can see we have access to both props and state.
Now what happens if for some reason the state doesn't change because we don't really care about anything
else in our prop of color red.
It's kind of static right now and should component update we can do something like this.
We can say if this dot state does count doesn't equal
next state DOT count if they're different.
In that case well yes please return true and we render Otherwise we can just return false.
Let's save that go back make sure everything still works yeah everything still works.
But let's say that now we want to change our props let's remove or comment out the should component
update from Hetter and refresh your and type something.
And we see that our header is updating once again.
And if we go back to our conurbation and in the render we see that coner And although we're con. logging
it it's not appearing here as Nyree rendering.
But if I remove this piece of code let's say we remove sheet component update I save and go back we
see that the conurbation is now being rendered.
And even though we don't touch it and don't care about it because our parent component is being rendered
we also get re rendered.
So by adding should component update only update if the state count changes.
That's the only time that our component should update.
Very cool.
But now no conurbation.
Now there are times when you have simple what we call dumb components are stateless components are presentational
components.
Kind of like this card component here.
It's a pure function and only changes when it's prop's change re-act has a special type of component
built in cold pure component that is meant exactly for this.
So if this card component was kind of like this kind of component we can say extends pure component
and we can just import from re-act pure component.
Now what does this mean.
This means that only the component.
From now on will only render when it's prop's actually change.
That's a nice and simple.
If you change this car component to have a class with that it stands a pure component it automatically
does the should component update only change if these three things change which is really really nice.
Now the one caveat is that this pure component does something call shallow comparison of props.
So if you use complex data structures like deeply nested objects it may miss some props changes and
not update your components.
So I'm actually not a big fan of using pure components.
I personally like using should component update which does the same thing but you have a bit of control
but you shouldn't overuse this because now you've added an extra step in your re-act update to check
for something else.
So this actually also has a performance penalty because you're running a nother function to check if
anything else change because shared component update is a method that is called before render this render
right here.
So use this cautiously.
Never just add this because oh it's going to improve my performance actually measure it if this helps
for those rare cases.
Definitely use it but don't overuse it for every single component which I've seen in many projects.
It could actually hinder your performance or sometimes miss some updates because of this shallow comparison
that it does.
I want to show you one last tool that might actually help you with some of this because it is a bit
of a headache to figure all of this out on your own.
It's called Why did you update and to oh why does you update.
This is a tool that tells you in the console that hey why are you rendering this.
Nothing has changed but it's render it's an avoidable render.
So it does this for you and all you need to do is implemented into your re-act app just with a few lines
and you make sure that it doesn't go into production.
You just use it for development purposes only.
Because one of the most common issues that affects performance and react is this unnecessary render
cycles because remember Riak components will read Rander whenever their parent renders automatically
even if their props didn't change.
So this tool allows you to run this in development and see if when you're doing any unnecessary rendering.
And this is extremely useful when you have a large app where it's really hard for you to just do console
log or figure out where to where the highlights are happening.
But again with everything use it with caution use your time wisely because performance you can always
improve your apps performance.
You just want to have this big picture and understand how your app works.
In your case how this reacts redux app works and how you can improve it by understanding all the small
details of how it works.
You can now make smart decisions on how or when to tackle your performance problems.
That's it for now.
I'll see you in the next one.